## Instructions

Instructions for the mini research project which will be presented on March 6, 2025 in Paris.
You will prepare an oral presentation in groups of 2-4 students (ideally from different Una Europa universities) on a case study of your choice that is related to the topic of colonial heritage in Europe. 
1. You will provide some context on the nation-state where your case study is based on. The objective of this first part is to cast light on different European contexts, shaped by different colonial and imperial histories and racial formations. You will also expose the discussions and evolutions of heritage policies within the context of several antiracist and decolonial movements (RhodesMustFall, Black Lives Matter…). This part will be grounded in a critical review of relevant literature.
2. You will focus on a public debate that has taken place recently in this European country raised by contestations around a monument, a statue, an exhibition or museum collections. This second part will identify the different actors involved in this debate and analyze their discourses. This section will be mostly based on secondary data, and eventually interviews (optional).
3. You will analyze alternative heritage practices which have been launched to make visible the trouble around these heritage monuments / objects (artistic intervention, walking tour etc.). The objective of this section is to explore the role of a set of actors from below (but also in relation with institutional cultural institutions) that contribute to produce knowledge on the legacies of colonialism in Europe and create counter-hegemonic narratives and memories. 
